1645 - ATLANTIC OCEAN
25 MILES FROM THE SPANISH COAST
SEPTEMBER 2009
Walter, there's 30 million here.
We can't sit here all day. The Customs--
We stay until the job's done.
James, we're clear but it won't last.
Any sign?
No.
But there's still one last left to check.
OK, I'm going in.
No, you won't get though with the gear.
-It's not a problem.
He can't free dive.
It's on a slope.
He's made his choice.
How long has he been under?
Two minutes.
Craig, do you have eyes on James?
-No, maybe he found another one...
Were you worried about me, Walter?
That would suggest I cared, James.
Well, if you didn't before,
you will now.
Bring it up. Bring it home.
The next cage is coming.
Drop it now.
Atlantis crew,
this is Spanish customs.
Raise your hands
and prepare to be boarded.
Our conclusions are irrefutable.
The Virgin of Guadalupe
was a Spanish galleon
The Hague International Court
April 2010
and its remains were found
under Spanish jurisdiction.
Mr. Moreland's assertion that the law
of salvage is applicable is preposterous.
This was piracy.
The Spanish claim of ownership
is the only piracy here.
My crew and I
invested years in research...
Mr. Moreland. You have provided
no contract from an owner
nor permission to salvage
from the Spanish authorities.
The cargo salvaged
by the Atlantic Group
is the sole property
of the Spanish crown.
There's gotta be something
the government can do.
I like you, but I helped you
at Her Majesty's pleasure.
Her Majesty's pleasure
was half bounty.
Now she won't get a penny.
She'll live with it.
What if you don't have to?
-We lost. We can't step in.
We lost in court. What if...
-Stop. I'm not hearing this.
We're only weeks before researchers
are granted access.
How long before they realize
what they have?
Still fighting.
Why can't we just live our lives?
-I have lived my life every day.
I mean real life, a normal life.
Do you know how many times
I've been to Paris?
53. And how many times have I climbed
the Eiffel Tower?
None.
Climbing the Eiffel Tower?
That's living a normal life?
It's over, Walter.
You've heard where they're taking it.
MADRID
MAY 2010
Transcript by sub.Trader
subscene.com
Spanish parts are provided by explosiveskull.
- Good morning.
We'll take it from here.
CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY
JUNE 2010
Hi.
Sorry I'm late.
It's all right. Take a seat.
I hope no one else
snuck in ahead of us this morning.
You are the first.
-Excellent!
This is a unique position
for a 22-year-old student.
But fitting for the boy genius
whose concrete bell idea
helped Best Oil with a oil spill problem
in the Gulf of Mexico.
The people.
-Excuse me?
I wasn't helping Best Oil.
I was helping the people who were there
for the mess caused by Best Oil.
Yes, of course.
But what matters here is that it was
your idea that solved the problem.
That of yours is precisely the sort of mind
we're looking for.
Thank you. Thank you.
So what we can offer you
is a $400,000 starting salary.
A corner office.
Shares in the company.
A team working under you.
I think I sent you guys a project?
-About vetting wells?
In desert areas.
With a relatively modest investment
you can go a long way towards
eliminating the water problem in the Sahel.
Yes, of course, a magnificent project.
- You never got back to me.
It's not our sector.
Do you have any idea
how humiliating this is for me?
The eight leading multinationals,
and you shit on their hospitality?
Because I don't want to follow you
into the corporate hell scape of Big Oil?
I simply told them the truth, dad.
And their interests
just didn't align with mine interests.
Yes, of course.
Your interests...
So what are those interests then?
Your main course.
Clean the sauce off your shirt
and come with me.
Bon appetit.
Look, Thom, you and I are adults.
What is this?
You can do what you want in life,
but you still need a real job.
Save the world if that's your thing.
I'm the opportunity of a lifetime.
But nothing is free, Thom.
And those companies they are offering you
the opportunity of a lifetime.
Don't mess it up.
Where are you going?
-Just gonna get some fresh air.
Sir? Your coat.
Thank you.
I-- I didn't...
Thom, come talk to me
before you sign your life away.
No, I'm good for now, actually.
I'll be back.
Hi.
- Hi.
Hello... I... Do we...
Do you...
...produced by the Vietnamese workshops
all over...
Claudia!
Claudia Valenti is curating an exhibit
on Spanish romantics.
What's that?
My new assistant.
You're flying to Madrid tomorrow, yes?
- That's why I came.
You forgot to sign
the official request for inspection.
I do apologize.
It's okay, forget it.
Here.
- Yes.
And here.
Gracias.
-You're welcome.
Have a safe trip.
-Will do.
Now the rest of you I'm gonna...
Why did you do that?
Do what?
-I saw you stole his wallet.
I thought you did.
Check your pocket.
What did you do?
Okay, I maybe just very boring but I really
don't wanna be involved with this. Okay?
Look. You can give it back to its owner.
Tell him you found it on the floor.
And remain the law abiding citizen.
Make your daddy proud. It's okay.
Or?
Be an accomplice and come with me.
Fucking rain, eh?
Do you see that table?
Wait for me there.
20 messages from dad
Along with your father's voice mails
you'll hear from several leading
oil companies with increasingly rich offers.
Beer.
Don't worry about Lorraine.
She can look after herself.
It's Lorraine now?
Enough with this Cloak and Dagger nonsense.
What's this game all about?
I'm Walter Moreland.
I'm the owner of the salvage business.
And I have a job offer.
I want you to help me break into the vault
of the most secure location in the world.
Okay, very good.
Do I look like Danny Ocean?
He's a...
I'm an engineer.
And your idea ended the Gulf crisis.
Where others saw futility,
you saw a solution.
It's the same with my problem.
I see an impossible task,
you might see a way to overcome it.
I think you probably need a safe cracker,
someone who actually does this stuff.
Thieves who want to rob a bank today,
they use a keyboard and a modem.
Great, go and do that.
-I'm not a thief.
Oh really? How do you figure?
Well, the vault, how it works, what it is.
We can't work it out.
For 80 years no one has.
It's been described
as a miracle of engineering.
But we don't even know
what that means.
I need your mind.
Because I'm not just looking
for a solution to a problem...
I don't know what the problem is.
Why the hell did you think I'd do this?
Aside of making you richer
than you ever though possible.
From the first time today
someone's got your attention.
LONDON - MADRID
DAD
Your future is calling.
Most secure vault in the world
Bank of Spain
Bank of Spain miracle engineering
19th Century Engineering.
The enigma has never been solved
The impossible mechanism
Dad, it's me.
Just wanted to let you know
that I'm gonna go off.
I need to go away for a few days.
To think a few things over.
Lorraine?
Walter was right.
I wasn't so sure.
Me neither.
July 3, Paraguay-Spain. Quarterfinals
FIFA World Cup South Africa 2010
Tourists?
Yes... honeymoon.
Honeymoon? Congratulations, man!
Good place, Madrid, for the honeymoon.
Yes, right?
Especially now
with the World Cup going on.
The whole city goes crazy
whenever it's Spain playing.
I'll show you around later.
They are waiting for you. Come on.
The war room.
Hello!
- Hey.
You are very welcome.
Meet the team.
In the control booth,
our computer wiz, Klaus.
Hi.
-Hi.
On my right, James,
my colleague and friend of 10 years.
Planning, entry, extraction.
He'll be leading the salvage.
Buenos Dias!
Look at this beauty.
Not even on the market.
A 3D printer?
Simon. Acquisitions.
I'm the guy who can get things.
If you need something just tell me.
Thom, one of the world's brightest minds
and hopefully the key to our success.
He hasn't even mastered shaving
and he's gonna mastermind infiltration?
Mastermind?
-Yeah.
To succeed where all others have failed,
takes a mastermind.
Klaus, are we in?
Yeah, we got the phone line.
I can listen...
but I need the voicemail code to break in.
The voicemail access code
lets you break into the system?
The Renaissance art genius of a virus
I created breaks the system.
The code just lets us touch the loop.
Super smart guy, huh?
Until you hear his plan
to get the voicemail code.
Have you got a better plan?
Listen...
He calls numbers
in the bank switch board.
Then keys random 9 digit numbers
hoping to get a match.
It doesn't check one at a time.
It takes 10 million attempts a day.
How many combinations are there?
-A billion.
What?
Klaus, we don't have time.
Find an employee
who's out of the office.
Call him on their mobile, pretend to be
one of those automated messages.
telling them they've got urgent voicemail,
they'll key their pass code, we can copy it.
Come on. They won't fall for that.
It's a voicemail code, not bank details.
Why wouldn't they?
Try it.
Simon, you'll be the message.
Hello?
This is the voicemail service
of the Bank of Spain.
You have a new message.
Please enter your access code after the signal.
The moment of truth.
Well done, Thom.
That's my hack.
-Yes, but he made it work.
So simple.
Unpacking now doesn't mean
you can't walk later.
You'll just be walking away
with less creases.
I just don't really know
what I'm doing here.
Well, the truth is
you're not off to a bad start.
Another dead end.
Do you know who Sir Francis Drake was?
Yeah, An English sailor from the 1500s,
fought the Spanish armada.
He wasn't navy,
he was a privateer.
Like a pirate?
-It's a fine line.
Drake resented his orders to steal
Spanish treasures to fond the English Crown.
He stole the treasure
and kept it for himself.
He buried it and no one knows where.
30 years ago I bought this letter
from a backstreet antique dealer in Crete
who didn't know what he had.
It was written by his first mate.
It concerns 3 coins Drake had engraved
with the coordinates to his fortune.
The coins were kept in this coffer.
30 years I've searched for that.
A year ago, I found it on the ship wreck.
And that's what locked in the bank.
Drake's motto was
written on the chest.
Sic parvis magna.
'Great things from small things come'
How great are the things that come?
Untold wealth.
But it's not about that.
I have money.
Then why do you care?
-I'm a hunter.
I seek what others have lost.
We can't explain our passions. If we did...
Listen to that.
A million people gathering
to cheer for men they don't know
to put a ball in a net.
Unnecessarily. Unessential.
But it means everything.
That's passion.
The Bank of Spain is one of the
most impenetrable buildings on the planet.
Every inch of the interior
is covered by cameras and sensors.
Any unauthorized movement brings the rapid
fire of the 15 guards stationed within.
Across the street is the headquarters
of the Spanish army.
A garrison of 500 on alert,
for any attacks on the city
or any attempts on the bank.
If that wasn't enough,
Gustavo Medina, chief of security.
Former head
of Spain's anti terrorism task force.
What we call here is
the real son of a bitch.
If he makes us, the job's off.
How are you getting in?
-From below.
There are more tunnels in Madrid
than streets on above.
James and Simon are mapping the route.
We're not there yet,
but we're close.
And this supposed to be the vault?
This was a sketch done by an ex-employee,
who was in the vault for a few minutes in 1944.
And this?
-It's some sort of engraving.
They favored aesthetics
in functional architecture in 19th Century.
Catholic imagery.
Probably a martyr. Very Spanish.
This is apparently bridge,
and that gives us access to the vault door.
The door requires two actual keys
and Gustavo Medina's thumb print.
Claudia Valenti, our art expert,
to whom you have met, will take care of it.
Sounds like you've got it covered.
Not even close.
The vault is safety rigged,
but we don't know how.
If we don't shut down the fail safe
when we enter the vault
we're not coming out.
That's the miracle of engineering
that you need to identify. Unsolve.
Can I see the actual vault?
I can't go for the cameras yet,
only watch, not until tomorrow.
We'll also have a better idea
what that vault looks like then.
We gonna take a magnetometer read.
Wait, you're going in there tomorrow?
Stage 1.
This is the Integrated Cleaning Services.
Good evening. This is the maintenance
department of the Bank of Spain.
Yes?
We're having some problems with the alarms
that are annoying people here.
We must cancel the cleaning tomorrow.
Very well.
How about the day after tomorrow?
We don't know yet.
We'll call you back, okay?
Okay, no problem.
It's ready.
What do you think about it?
It's perfect.
As always.
...passes it on to Villa.
The referee looks at his watch...
...and it's the final whistle!
The spectators are going crazy!
CIBELES SQUARE
We have to postpone
and find a replacement.
We don't have a time and too much of a risk.
- Going in now is the risk.
If you're getting nervous, James
you need to tell me.
Doing it right
isn't the question of nerve, Walter.
What's going on?
The security uses INTERPOL's face rec.
James was special forces so...
He is in the database.
The system will bust him.
I'm going in his place.
You don't know how to use the equipment.
-Teach me how to use it.
Teach you how to use
a magnetometer overnight?
And then Klaus can teach you code
over breakfast.
I can do it.
Of course you can, Cambridge.
-I know how to use it.
I'm an engineer.
Yesterday you were a student.
Today you're brainstorming
for a complete stranger
And tomorrow you're a criminal.
Is that right?
Thom will do it.
BANK OF SPAIN
7:57 AM
- How are you?
- Fine.
It's just you two?
Just be glad we're here.
With the World Cup going on,
everyone calls in sick.
The game with Paraguay
wasn't easy yesterday.
With that already being difficult, we
don't stand a chance against Germany.
You'll see.
You know what's funny?
It was the English who invented football...
...but in the end,
it's Germany that always wins.
Says who?
-Gary Lineker.
I prefer our own Torres.
Torres, he says.
Park further on the left.
They're in.
- Good morning.
- Hello.
Claudia Valenti.
Miss Valenti?
I'm Gustavo Medina, head of security.
-Nice to meet you.
Is that your scanner?
No, scanners are for reproductions.
This has an ultraviolet light
that addresses any imperfections
in the paintings for insurance.
You want to see it?
Gustavo?
That's okay, Miss Valenti.
Munoz will take care of you from here.
Miss Valenti, Mr. Munoz.
-Nice to meet you.
Could you...
-Sure.
Nice to meet you.
This way.
- Thank you.
- You're welcome.
Thom, you're doing a great job.
Now I want you to head
to the basement level.
Okay, Simon, at the end of the hall,
the door on the left.
Just hold on. Hold on.
Hold on.
Okay, camera off. 90 seconds. Go!
Is it your first time in Madrid?
Yes.
Simon, hurry up. Lorraine
is almost at the chairman's office.
Here it is.
Done. Did it work?
Yes! The security system is now our bitch.
Okay, so the monitors on the left
is what Gustavo sees
and right side
shows what's really happening.
Here is Lorraine.
Please.
-Thank you.
Here it is.
Our most precious Goya.
La Marquesa de Tolosa.
Yes.
If you need something dial 28-71.
Thank you.
Lorraine, can you hear me?
-Yes.
Okay, let's record the loop.
20 seconds... don't breath.
Wait until the camera switches.
Go!
Recording.
Stop, pretend you have seen
something in the picture.
OK... keep scanning.
We're still recording.
Got it. We will put it in the slow mo.
The loop has been launched.
Two and a half minutes... Go!
- It's amazing, no?
- A Goya is always amazing.
Sure, yes, Goya, but I meant ...
You and your sense of humor.
I'll understand it one day.
We'll see about that.
Great, Lorraine.
Let's go for that key... fast.
All right, Thom, 10 meters to your left
there's a door.
Get closer while I prepare the loop.
Scanning first key.
Just wait. Hold on.
Camera is on loop.
Get inside.
Go.
Thom, you're right above the vault pit.
Okay...
It works.
Done.
First key copied.
Lorraine, someone is coming.
I'm not sure what this has to do
with your current exhibit, Miss Valenti.
I cannot place the artist.
'Eating Breakfast in Salamanca'.
It's my wife.
Mariano Bellido, chairman of the bank.
-Claudia.
Beautiful small talk, Lorraine,
but if you're not back
in the same position
in 20 seconds we are screwed.
This is embarrassing,
I was wondering ...
Could you take a picture of me
scanning it?
Of course.
Now put your left hand an inch left.
And get the chairman off the shot.
Can you take one
from the doorway?
I want to feel the grander
of your palational office.
Six seconds...
He's still in shot.
Beautiful.
-Gracias.
Three...
Two...
A little further back?
It's impressive, huh?
And it will stay that way
if you stop smoking around it.
You can see that from the scan?
And from the air freshener.
And the disabled window lock.
Well...
-Don't worry. I will not mention it.
Thank you.
Good, Lorraine,
go for the other key.
Shit!
Scheisse.
-Fuck.
Thom, you got company.
Break up the magnetometer,
hide it in your clothes
and walk out of the room
as you've been cleaning it.
We need to abort.
-No, we won't get a second chance.
The first topic of the day:
it was brought
to our attention that...
The other Goya.
Take all the time you need.
Can I help you with anything else?
-No thank you.
Okay then.
OK, Lorraine,
Gustavo isn't on you yet. Scan fast.
Yesterday, we discussed
July and December operations.
The development process
of assets' index is stable...
ERROR
BLOCKED
So the bank can move forward
with the investment of 211 million...
Scheisse... it's frozen.
- Fix it.
Thom can surge the power but if he...
-The power surge will trigger the alarm.
- It's the fire alarm.
- Quick, come this way.
Attention, everyone.
Where is it, Munoz?
The vault.
What the fuck is that?
50 seconds left.
Close the perimeter.
You go to the vault.
Nobody comes in or goes out
without my permission!
Come on, move it.
Step aside! Step aside!
Second battalion, right flank!
The chairman is on his way.
Two seconds...
Miss Valenti, this way.
Come with me.
The building's on lock own.
They are moving everybody to the foyer.
Big problem.
The safe is still open
and the key's in my hand.
Miss Valenti? This way. Please
-Thank you.
Well, I'm calling it time to panic.
Simon, I need you to go
to the controller's office.
That's the problem ... I'm in the foyer.
I'm not.
Where are you, Thom?
Bottom of the stairs.
What do you need me to do?
How's your catching now, Thom?
Absolutely terrible.
Lorraine is gonna throw you a key
and you'll gonna have to catch it.
There's no room for error.
If it's on the floor, we're all screwed.
Lorraine, on three.
Two ...
One! Now!
Good job.
Now what?
Okay, Thom, turn left, 15 meters.
You'll find the backstairs.
Go on the third floor.
Third door unlocked.
Scheisse, Thom, there's a guard
approaching. You've gotta hide.
What are you doing here?
You scared me. I didn't hear the alarm
because I had my ear buds on.
You have to get out of here quickly.
Come on.
Thom, if you have any other hidden talents,
could you please let us know.
That kid got balls.
What the hell is going on?
Nothing, Gustavo,
the basement is completely empty.
The alarm doesn't go off on its own.
I think there was a power outage.
If it's okay with you,
I want to let people go.
This is the ground floor of the bank.
There's a few hundred feet
of earth and rock and then...
this part soft wavy lines,
out of focus...
This is the vault.
And then an empty chamber below it.
While all of those hard lines, precision.
I just don't understand why this part isn't.
Maybe the scanner shifted?
-No, below it's solid.
The scanner just can't figure out
what to put in focus.
Water...
It's a tank of water.
The 'soft' part.
The vault sits under
a tank of water.
Shit... he's right.
-Explain.
The water is the trap.
The tank funnels through these pipes here
flooding the vault.
But that doesn't sound so unrobbing.
You can swim in or scuba?
No no. Because of the empty chamber
under the vault.
Do you see these 'teeth' on either side?
That's an actuator.
Gears. Like a pinion gears.
When the vault floods
the whole thing sinks down into the chamber.
And if it's in the chamber
no one gets in or out.
What makes it sink. What triggers it?
Lasers maybe? Motion?
-No, too modern.
Whatever it is
it was designed 70 years ago.
It's been in front of you the whole time.
Engraving...
It's not a martyr.
Justice...
-Exactly.
Lady Justice.
So?
When they built this they didn't have
sensors, motion detectors,
but they did have scales.
If there's a slightest change
of weight in the vault
the whole thing floods and sinks.
And if you're inside
the vault dispenses its own justice.
It drowns you.
The vault. The miracle of engineering...
-Is one giant weighting scale.
And it's genius.
A giant scales.
So what's the solution?
I don't know. But we know
what the problem is.
Are you happy now?
"Spanish soldiers
scare the hell out of tourists."
We just followed protocol.
Think before you involve the army
during the World Cup.
And for what?
A simple power outage.
I am not so sure about that.
Haven't you seen what's outside?
The TV screens? The generators?
- I have. We need to take them away.
- I already thought about that.
The semi-final is in a few days.
Enough time to move
that playground elsewhere.
People can watch it
in a pub, as always.
Gustavo, they won't move
the TV screens.
Football is everything.
July 7 / Germany-Spain. Semifinal
FIFA 2010 Football World Cup Final
Fuck, another dead end.
We are only 30 meters away.
Wait...
Do you hear something?
Copper base...
to support the structure.
Kid was right.
It's a scale.
We must be directly under the vault.
The pit must be over there.
Shit...
We're fucked.
Steel plates...
Titanium reinforced concrete...
And a Dyneema shell.
-What does that mean?
To drill through this wall
to the pit will take 15 days.
We have eight.
Use a bigger drill.
I'm not bargaining with you, Walter.
At 800 psi this wall will take 15 days.
Drill harder and we'll trigger the alarm.
That's it? We're done?
We're not gonna try
and figure out another way?
Walter will pay you for your time.
Sorry you wasted
five days of your life.
Walter, If I'm not gonna be rich
I could at least watch the games.
Simon, come here.
We can't break in from below,
but we can break in from above.
Walter, we spent weeks
mapping the route from above.
We abandoned it because there's too much
exposure from the CCTV cameras.
Except when Spain plays
its world cup games.
When the crowd gathers
in the Cibeles Square
every single camera will be pointing
away from the building towards the crowd.
It will be lie that for the final.
Which give us 105 minutes
to get the job done.
This is your route, James.
From the Zurich building,
through the dome, through the vents.
Is it still viable?
If the cameras are pointing at the crowd,
and not the bank...
then yeah, it is viable.
So everything depends on this match?
...corner kick!
I just wanted to remind you
that we've still got a problem.
My problem.
The scale.
I'm still no closer to finding a solution
and the finals are four days away.
Half the time I was meant to have.
Well, I have every faith
that Spain will get there.
And I have every faith in you.
Come on, come on... goal!
It's all on you now, Thom.
I'm sorry. I'm so sorry I doubted you.
Goal for Spain,
goal for Puyol!
Spain 1, Germany 0!
- Want another coffee?
- Show me number 4.
With milk?
This is disgusting.
Any intention of emptying these bins?
We weren't allowed in for two days.
And now we are getting complaints.
The day before yesterday,
there were two cleaners here.
Weren't ours. You canceled on us.
And now you're saying...
Drink that and you won't sleep.
I'm drinking that so I won't sleep.
You've been awake for 43 hours.
You won't figure it out
if you break down with exhaustion.
Great work.
He'll be fine. I put my faith in him.
-You put fear in him.
Think what it will do to him if he fails.
He'll take a job at GranCo Oil.
-Not if he does have a idea.
What if he does and it fails?
He won't be anywhere near it.
But we will. And that's the risk
we agreed to take.
But you're asking him
to put our lives in his hands.
Every voyage, every salvage, every dive.
We all ask the crew
to take each others lives in their hands.
He's not in your crew.
He's a college kid.
And you're worried about him
because he's a college kid?
Or is it something else?
- Here's your "power outage."
- Who are they?
Neither the police, nor the Civil Guard
have any files on them...
...but they are
definitely not cleaners.
They entered with fake IDs.
Son of the bitch!
I thought we were invulnerable
with our latest gadgets.
We are.
And now we know who they are.
What do they want? Gold?
It would be impossible
because of the weight. Too heavy.
- What's in those shipwreck crates?
- No idea.
They are sealed
until the Ministry investigates them.
You're not allowed to
smoke in here and you know it.
Thom, do you have a criminal record?
OK.
He's clean. Simon?
-I've never even had a parking ticket.
If it wasn't for my birth certificate,
there would be no proof that I even exist.
And the image search
won't turn anything up.
What's going on?
You fucked up when you surged the power
that's what going on.
Walter's right.
We haven't been made.
-We haven't been made?
Gustavo Medina knows someone's
after the vault.
Places a trap.
We can monitor the trap.
-Walter's right.
Walter's right? Are you even capable
of having a thought of your own?
Yes, when I agreed to do this job.
Just like you.
Since then all I heard from you
are reasons to run.
Why did you come aboard?
Loyalty.
Yeah? To whom?
Stop!
James, we go on with the plan.
They know we want to get in
but not how we'll do it.
Thom, you figure out
how to crack that scale.
They are quite blurry,
we can't see much.
Do you have any better photos?
Yes, but I prefer
we get it done with these.
ARCHEOLOGY DEPARTMENT
UNIVERSITY OF MADRID
The ship left America at the time...
...with a cargo of gold
and silver, and then it sank.
Total value of the cargo?
15 to 20 million. Maybe more.
Wait a moment...
If this is what it seems like,
we are not talking about 20 million.
It's worth more than that.
Much more.
LONDON
SECRET INTELLIGENCE SERVICE (MI6)
HEADQUARTERS
Walter, how is the Eiffel Tower?
I'm a little south of Paris.
Really? How far south?
Eating a paella.
And I need your help.
Walter, you know where we stand.
The government hands are tied and you know it.
50%, Margaret.
All I need you to do is tell a lie.
I know you can do that.
BANK OF SPAIN
So the Ministry doesn't know
the content of the crates. Typical.
But those two men who entered
with fake IDs know. And they want to steal it.
Next Sunday.
- And ruin the final for me?
- I'm serious.
It is not a coincidence
that they came 3 days ago.
The final provides them
with the perfect diversion opportunity.
They will be coming when everyone's
looking the other way, including you.
We need to double up the security.
And close Cibeles, Prado and Alcala.
If we do that, we will have
a huge problem maintaining the order.
That's your problem,
mine is the security of my bank.
- Your bank? Don't make me laugh.
- Gentlemen, calm down.
Tell me.
We sent the photos
to Interpol and Europol.
We just received a message from
the British intelligence service MI6...
...those two men were arrested yesterday
at Heathrow Airport.
One of them had a USB stick
with a blueprints of our bank.
Also banks in Zurich,
London and Hamburg.
- The problem is solved.
- This does not change anything.
Someone tried to get in here
and this arrest does not change anything.
Gustavo, you were right.
But now it's over. End of the story.
Sir, with all due respect,
you are missing the point.
Fill the bank with soldiers
and increase security.
You're in charge now
and I won't interfere.
But people will watch
the final in the square. Period.
I'm kinda busy here, Lorraine.
What do you want?
A drink.
Wash your face and put this on.
I'm not asking.
So you said he was
like a father to you?
My real father worked for him.
He died when I was eight.
Walter told my mom
if I ever needed anything he'll be there.
She died when I was 12.
I'm sorry.
It wasn't easy. I was angry all the time.
None of the foster homes could deal with me
for more than a few weeks.
So I wound up on the streets. Three years.
And Walter appeared and tracked me down.
He kept his promise.
Lorraine...
What if I'm steering you off the cliff?
You're too smart and you overthink.
I looked at your ideas there.
I don't understand them at all.
But do you know what I do understand?
Using an automated message
to get the phone pass code.
Yeah, that simple isn't always best.
More often than not.
Look...
You can drink a cold beer
on a hot day.
Or spend eternity watching this guy
spin bottles like an idiot.
Then get a glass of smoky red bullshit.
You can be a victim of fashion.
Or you can look sexy as hell
in a plain gray shirt.
How much money do you have?
Can I?
Right?
Now watch this.
The weight didn't register.
You froze it?
-The metal is always 'frozen', James.
But yes. I further slowed
its atomic activity.
I've tricked the scale.
Will this all work in the vault?
-Same principle.
Bigger scale need more nitrogen. But yeah.
We'll just need someone in the chamber below
to freeze the scale before we enter.
It's genius, Thom.
No... it's simple.
Thom...
What do we need?
Thermal lances, a fire suit
and 500 liters of liquid nitrogen.
500?
OK, I'll figure it out.
-Well, this is all well and good
but as long as someone's in the chamber
spraying liquid nitrogen
then we're one short in the bank.
I'll go in the bank.
No we need you up here running the show.
I've asked a lot of you,
but would you be willing to go to the chamber?
No...
- It's the least amount of exposure.
Walter, he said 'no'.
- I'm not going in the chamber.
Simon is.
I'm going in the bank.
There's no way I'm taking you in there.
-I'm not asking.
Who put you in charge?
-Walter did.
When you brought me here,
this became my responsibility.
And I won't be responsible for their lives
without putting mine alongside them.
Let me make this clear
so I'm absolutely sure you understand it.
We can't escape
through the tunnels anymore.
So we'll go in and out through the roof.
And everything before the match finishes.
There's no plan 'B'.
If we get caught, we're going down
for a very long time.
Are you sure you are prepared for that?
Are you?
Here they are.
Take into account that these
are very rare pieces.
How much?
20,000 for the entire set.
I want to have them engraved.
Are you sure it's a good idea
to be doing shots
the night before committing
the crime of the century?
No regrets... It's a tradition.
The night before a dangerous voyage
the sailors would drink rum
and voice one thing they regretted.
Okay, I regret...
that one night in Thailand
when I woke up next to that ladyboy.
What? It's not funny.
OK, I go.
I regret...
I won't be able to watch Spain win
the World Cup with my father.
He had dreamt of it his whole life.
But if he can't be here to watch it
I'll listen to it on his old radio.
Maybe that way he can hear it
with me.
Thom? You don't regret
joining us on the salvage?
No, that's one thing I don't regret.
Do you mind me asking why you did accept?
Passion.
And because it was impossible.
Lorraine?
How about you, James?
This is our 14th 'salvage',
as you like to call it.
But it's a big one.
No regrets.
July 10 / Spain-Netherlands. The Final
FIFA World Cup South Africa 2010
Spain's football team is
now in Johannesburg.
This is our main goal since
the beginning of the World Cup.
We wanted to keep that dream alive,
and today, it is within our reach.
Our hearts are with
our players who are now resting.
And yes, Spain
is the favorite of this final.
SUBWAY
BANK OF SPAIN
It's time.
We're in position.
OK, sound check. Checking one.
One, checked.
-Two, checked.
Three, checked.
-Four, is not quite yet.
Now I'm checked.
The Captain also checked.
First positions.
And the final match begins!
The match of our lives begins!
All right, guys. Here we go.
Ready?
You remember what I said
about thinking?
Listen, Gustavo, I have two teams
on stand by.
And the bank is sealed off airtight.
OK, foyer is clear.
Cameras are on loop.
You have 50 seconds.
Go!
The chopper is on its way.
30 seconds.
The next patrol on its way.
10 seconds.
Move fast ... three!
Almost on you.
OK, let's go!
Hold on. Hold on... Wait!
Hold on. Hold on...
All right, guys,
the corridor to your right.
Third door.
All right, guys, we are tracking you
on the schematic.
All right, this is gonna start
getting tricky.
15 meters, straight.
A turn on your 12, 10 meters.
On your right, 100 meters.
100 meters? Are you kidding me?
The foyer is secure.
Our shift has ended.
- What's the score?
- 0-0.
The next person
that talks about football is fired.
People are excited, no point
in making them any more nervous.
Don't fuck around, Munoz, focus!
Fucking hell!
They are 2 minutes behind,
why is that happening?
Thom is slowing them.
End of the first half!
Spain 0, Netherlands 0!
OK guys, it's half time.
60 minutes to get out.
We're 10 minutes late.
- Yes, sir?
- Have we been robbed yet?
No, Mr. Director.
Then they have to hurry,
the second half starts soon.
0-0...
but the Dutch are prevailing now.
Check all the cameras and sensors again.
Did he mention the score?
Clear to proceed, in three.
We see you again ...
It's 46 minutes until full time. Let's go.
And the second half begins!
Come on, Cambridge.
Thom!
Thom? Look at me.
You're good.
That's right.
James, don't move!
The back is slipping!
Stop!
Thom, how's that catching arm?
Still not quite good.
Thank you for saving my life, Thom.
I will buy you flowers.
Klaus, the codes?
OK, the codes change
every 33 minutes.
We get 6 minutes
before I can try grabbing the next one.
But you can grab them?
-That would be another question.
You can do it. You can do it...
Six.
-Six...
Three.
-Three...
Seven.
-Seven...
One... just one more ...
how's my time?
15 seconds.
10...
Klaus, if we don't get this
we'll have to wait 31 minutes.
Come on baby...
Four! It's four. Jesus!
Walkaway camera is looped.
All right. Motion detectors off. Go!
VERIFICATION
CORRECT
There they are.
Simon, you are clear to go.
21 minutes left.
It's talking far too much time.
Simon, how many liters did you use?
-80 percent.
20 left.
Shouldn't it have worked by now?
Yeah.
But it hasn't.
Fuck!
Simon, how much left?
None. That's all of it.
Well done.
Wait!
You wanna see what I see.
It's working.
All right.
Hang on. I go first.
If I'm wrong, it's on me.
The scale hasn't moved. Move on.
Move fast. It will only last a few
minutes. Get to work!
The sensors in the foyer
are triggered.
Patrols 6 and 8 to the foyer.
Movement has been detected.
Guys, this thing's melting fast.
We found the intruder.
A pigeon.
How the hell did it get in?
There is an opening in the dome.
Show me the dome cameras.
Sic parvis magna..
I found it.
And the coins?
Walter, you need to see this.
Fuck.
No, there is no opening.
But I can see it.
- They hacked into our cameras.
- Check all the cameras!
What do you mean we have been made?
They found a whole in the dome.
They know you're in the building.
The guards have been mobilized.
-What do we do?
You need to get out of the vault
and surrender to the guards.
No, we can't. There's got to be
another solution.
You have to surrender.
And do it clearly,
or the guards will shoot you.
This is not gonna hold!
We have to get out now!
Wait.
-What?
Give me the coins.
What the hell are you doing, James?
We've lost, it's over.
Not for me it's not.
Give me the coins, Lorraine.
Give them to me.
What the hell does that mean?
-You were never gonna get the coins.
They've ordered me to bring them
to the British Embassy.
'They'? Who?
You know who.
You should've seen it coming.
-I thought you had retired.
We never retire, Walter.
Give him the coins, Lorraine!
Oh shit...
The alarm is going off.
- Those bastards are inside.
- They are in the vault.
Check the system! Code 1!
Move! Move!
Here we go.
Scheisse.
What are you doing?
There are a handful people in the world
that can make that swim.
And you're not two of them.
I'm sorry, Lorraine.
Really. I am.
Fuck off.
It's over. I'm calling the bank.
They can stop it.
There's no point!
This thing's autonomous.
It won't stop until the vault's filled.
Thom, listen to me,
there's nothing we can do from here.
Do you think we don't know that?
Thom, Lorraine, keep calm!
We'll get you out of there!
You have around 10 minutes
before your submerged. 10 minutes.
Okay.
-We have to get out!
You studied the 3D model. You know it.
There has to be a way, a route.
Okay! I'm thinking! Everybody shut up!
Shut up! I'm trying to think!
OK, Thom, let's keep it simple.
Basic laws of physics:
The water will stop coming when
the vault is full...
it has to, otherwise the pressure
will burst the vault.
Great. But that won't save us.
There are no sensors in here
to take the water level...
so how does it know when to shut off?
The weight!
Simon! Are you still there, man?
Yeah, sure.
Okay, apply as much weight
as you can onto the scale.
Come on, please!
Come on!
Rapido!
Rapido! Rapido!
We have to trick the scale, we have
to trick it into thinking the vault's full!
It's all about the scale, it has to be.
What if you're wrong?
The vault is filling up,
but we still don't see anything.
- How is it going?
- I'm doing what I can.
It's not enough! Figure it out!
Simon, the water is still rising!
It's done!
Gustavo!
Scheisse!
I don't have control anymore.
Gustavo does.
It is all I have, guys. I'm sorry.
Lorraine?
Thom?
What's happening?
Walter, you don't think...
Come on, Dad, you can do it.
We go to overtime.
Spain 0, Netherlands 0.
Gustavo, the vault is being emptied.
Watch out, the vault will be unlocked
automatically when it's emptied.
Move!
- They're gone.
- What do you mean "gone?"
No idea, sir.
There is no body. Nothing.
They must be somewhere...
No?
Walter?
Thom? Lorraine? Can you hear me?
Those bastards...
-Yes, we hear you!
It worked!
Simon did it!
All units, search all floors.
Also the service areas.
All exits are blocked.
OK, guys, we'll get you out of there.
Walter, there's no way to get out.
What do we do?
I don't know. Just stay in the room.
There are no cameras there.
They'll find them in five minutes.
Klaus, get them out of there.
To where?
The whole building is crawling with guards.
There is no way out.
They can break a fucking window.
The windows are bulletproof.
They need keys to open.
Fuck!
Third floor.
Run!
Stop! Freeze!
They are running away to the 2nd floor!
- There they are! In the west wing!
- All exits are blocked.
Freeze!
They're heading to the 3rd floor!
- They're going to the chairman's office.
- They have no way to go.
What are they doing?
-I don't know.
Block the hallway.
They must not escape.
Go in.
...Ramos passes...
only 10 minutes to go...
Have you gone mad?
There are thousands of people there!
Gustavo, calm down.
To all units: they escaped.
They are running in the crowd,
towards the TV screen.
There! There they are!
There! There!
I'm sorry.
No regrets.
... go to Iniesta!
Iniesta!
Let's go!
Goal!
Iniesta scores!
Spain 1, Netherlands 0!
THE NEXT DAY
PALACE HOTEL
MADRID
You wanna buy me that drink now, Margaret?
James:
Ok. See you later.
I'm just still not celebrating.
Spain are.
Yes, we are as well.
You really believe in all that
for 'Queen & country' bullshit?
And I believe in doing my job.
You used me...
from the beginning.
We knew you were going do it.
We could not.
All right, let's renegotiate. 60-40.
You have nothing to negotiate with.
James has the coins.
And an obscure sense of loyalty.
You need to disappear.
You'll be at the top of the short list
of suspects and we can't protect you.
And I thought we are friends.
-We are.
As I said:
Country first.
Wrong.
Friendship and family first.
BRITISH EMBASSY
MADRID
Gentlemen.
Do you have the coordinates?
-Just a moment.
Tougher than expected.
But I have them.
Care to do the honors?
It's in Europe.
France.
Paris?
Shit...
According to this Francis Drake
buried his fortune underneath--
Under the Eiffel Tower.
He switched the coins.
That clever fucker!
SAINT TROPEZ
FRANCE
You knew this whole time
that James was gonna try and screw you?
I thought he might.
He's a good man.
But he gave his loyalty to a flag
and the code of honor that goes with it.
How did you manage
to switch out the coins?
What do you think?
I don't know.
I was there the whole time.
I didn't see anything.
Of course not.
OK.
Full house. Here we go.
Come on.
All right.
Europe.
One of us going home,
it's buried in London.
I guess that's the sign
I should call my dad.
Where in London, Klaus? Zoom in.
Oh shit.
Where?
LONDON 2012
ONE MONTH BEFORE
THE LONDON 2012 OLYMPICS GAMES
Miss Vogel?
Yes?
Welcome to the Bank of England.
Thank you.
Transcript by sub.Trader
subscene.com
Spanish parts are provided by explosiveskull.